dsiEMVAndroid API Reference
EMV Programming Interface Specification For Android Applications
Notice: This document contains information proprietary to Datacap Systems Inc. The only acceptable use for the information contained herein is to interface third party systems exclusively to Datacap’s ePay server and Tran products. Any other use is strictly prohibited.
dsiPDCX®, dsiEMVUS®, dsiEMVX®, Pay API™, EasyCheckout™. dsiEMVAndroid™, dsiEMVApple™, DSIEMVClientX®, DSIClientX®, DataTran™, NETePay™, NETePay Hosted™, TranCloud™, dsiTranCloud™, DC Direct™, DIALePay™, GIFTePay™, ePay™, ePay Administrator™, DataTran™, DialTran™, IPTran™, IPTranLT™, TwinTran™, AutoLoad™, NoLoad™, PSCS™, DatacapConnect™, dsiPDCiOS™, dsiPDCAndroid™ and Datacap names and logos and all related trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property are the property of Datacap Systems Inc. and cannot be used without its express prior written permission. All other names or trademarks are the property of the other owners.

About dsiEMVAndroid
What is dsiEMVAndroid?
dsiEMVAndroid is an Android library that provides applications with the ability to process an EMV (chip card) electronic payment. More Specifically, dsiEMVAndroid is an Android .aar library that is compatible with most Android devices with an minimum API level of 23. dsiEMVAndroid is designed to communicate exclusively to Datacap’s NETePay Hosted platform, and doesn’t require an in-store NETePay application. Communication to NETePay Hosted uses the Android device’s IP stack, and all messages are encrypted for secure transmission over open networks (such as the Internet).
dsiEMVAndroid does not use any transaction storage on the client device; logging and transaction management occur at the NETePay Hosted servers.
dsiEMVAndroid directly controls an approved EMV device over Bluetooth LE, USB, and IP to manage all card data interactions. See dsiEMVAndroid Secure Devices for a list of supported EMV devices and communication interfaces.
The dsiEMVAndroid control uses XML formatted requests and responses for transaction processing requests. For help getting started with DSIEMVAnroid, see Datacap’s dsiEMVAndroid Demo app on GitHub, or contact Datacap Integration Support.
Supported EMV PIN Pad Devices (SecureDevice)
The EMV PIN pads supported by dsiEMVAndroid can be determined by performing the GetDevicesInfo method available in dsiEMVAndroid. See GetDevicesInfo for details.
Or, please see dsiEMVAndroid Secure Devices for an evolving list of supported devices.
Datacap Splash Screen guide
Datacap partners can replace the default Datacap “splash screen” or “welcome screen” with their own brand or merchant branding. Splash screens can be deployed using Datacap’s PayLoader™ application. Contact Datacap to get started with PayLoader.
Examples
 Datacap Splash Screen 

	 Partner Branding 

	 Merchant Screen 

	Default Datacap Splash Screen
	Partner Splash Screen
	Merchant Splash Screen
	Splash Screen File Specifications
All splash screens should be in .GIF format (both for moving or static images). The max file size allowed is 2MB.
Screen sizes by device
Download a pre-configured Photoshop template file containing all the device sizes here (.zip) or refer to the chart below:
Device
	Screen size (WxH)
	PAX A920Pro/A77/A800
	720px x 1440px
	PAX IM30
	720px x 1280px
	PAX Aries8/A3700(Elys tablet)
	1280px x 800px
	PAX A35
	480px x 800px
	PAX A30
	1280px x 720px
	PAX A6650
	1080px x 2480px
	PAX A920MAX
	720px x 1480px
	Ingenico DX4000/EX6000
	720px x 1280px
	Ingenico DX8000/EX8000
	720px x 1440px
	Ingenico RX5000
	480px x 800px
	Ingenico RX7000
	1280px x 720px
	Ingenico RX9000
	1280px x 800px
	Datacap Gift - omnichannel gift card platform


 Datacap Gift logo 

What is Datacap Gift?
Datacap Gift™ is Datacap’s omnichannel gift card platform that enables card-present and card-not-present gift. dsiEMVAndroid connects card-present gift to the Datacap Gift platform - see PrePaid Transactions in section 3.
Note: For card-present gift, Datacap Gift mirrors Datacap’s GIFTePay™ integration. To pair card-not-present gift, refer to Pay API.
To learn more about Datacap Gift click here.
See Datacap Gift in action - Datacap Gift Demo
Datacap Gift key features
* Omnichannel Gift - sell, load or redeem gift cards online or in-store for a consistent experience across all channels.
* Real-time reporting for credit and gift transactions available 24/7 for solution providers and merchants.
* Pre-loaded promotions for products and services with automated expiration.
* White-label ready - White-label all aspects of Datacap’s gift platform: pre-branded gift cards, reporting dashboard, etc.
* Multi-location management - Manage gift cards across multiple chain locations or groups with shared reporting.
* Easy migration to and from dozens of third party gift services.
* Alternative Gift - Add support for alternative gift payments such as QR Code, Text-to-Pay, memberships, etc.
* Check Balances options - Cardholders can check gift card balances online or via QR code.
Datacap Gift Reporting
Use Datacap’s Reportal dashboard or build your own cusom dashboard using Reporting API
 Datacap Reporting